# CART451
 
WEEK 3 - SEPTEMBER 20, 2022

In her month-long experiment social turkers: crowdsourced dating (2013), Lauren McCarthy developed a system of live feedback on her OkCupid dates. The dates were streamed through an IPhone app and Amazon Mechanical Turk workers would be allowed to see the interactions in real time, interpret and offer feedback about McCarthy’s next moves by text message. This is one of the technologies discussed in Jeff Howe’s article “The Rise of Crowdsourcing” (2003): 
 
                    Peter Cohen, the program's director, acknowledges that Mechanical Turk, launched in beta in November, is a work in progress. (Amazon refuses to give a date for its official launch.) "This is a very new idea, and it's going to take some time for people to wrap their heads around it," Cohen says. "We're at the tippy-top of the iceberg."
                     
                    Ten years later, the crowdsourcing marketplace is still alive and used by many, such as artists like McCarthy. As stated in Howe’s article, this engine helps match a human to accomplish certain tasks: “Amazon calls the tasks HITs (human intelligence tasks); they're designed to require very little time, and consequently they offer very little compensation—most from a few cents to a few dollars.” Indeed, McCarthy made sure to denote the prices she was offered for each different task in her project journal logs. At some point, she increases the price she was offering: “It seems that $0.20 wasn’t enough, I think $0.25 is a sort of cut off when workers are searching for jobs.” Despite the increase, it shows how cheap the cost is if we compare it to subcontracting subjects to do the same tasks outside the crowdsourcing platform. According to Howe, crowdsourcing is in fact a good deal for entities that “can turn to the crowd to help curb the rising cost of corporate research.” In that sense, McCarthy’s experiment did not need big funding and costs, so was possibly able to conduct this project because of the low costs. This does in fact relate to how companies have been looking overseas for cheap labor in the past decades. 
                     
                    With the accessibility and the  immediacy of the internet, she was also able to get responses in real-time to affect the course of her date according to the feedback she would get from the Turkers. If not bots, the workers watching the artist may be from any location and any socioeconomic group. They also have different skill sets which could potentially mean a stronger network of subjects according to Howe: “The most efficient networks are those that link to the broadest range of information, knowledge, and experience.” In regards to her project, McCarthy stated that: “Oddly, knowing that the workers are watching me made me feel a sense of reassurance, like I’m not all alone in this situation.” Her life has now become content to be broadcasted, judged and controlled by a crowd. It does feel similar to the reality TV format that has been increasingly popular in the last decades. In this case, the viewers are also manipulating the content by deciding on the next actions of the artist. This format relates directly to the concept of user-generated TV discussed in Howe’s article: "I can imagine a time when all of our shows will have a user-generated component." In fact, the artist is able to be a producer and a broadcaster with only her personal phone, while the Turkers are content creators and directors. 
